The President:
This is a week of
faithful celebration.
On Monday and Tuesday nights,
Jewish families and friends in
the United States and around the
world gathered for a Seder to
commemorate the Exodus from
Egypt and the triumph of hope
and perseverance over
injustice and oppression.
On Sunday, my family will join
other Christians all over the
world in marking the
resurrection of Jesus Christ.
And while we worship
in different ways,
we also remember the shared
spirit of humanity that inhabits
us all -- Jews and
Christians, Muslims and Hindus,
believers and
nonbelievers alike.
Amid the storm of public debate,
with our 24/7 news cycle,
in a town like Washington that's
consumed with the day-to-day,
it can sometimes be easy to
lose sight of the eternal.
So, on this Easter weekend,
let us hold fast to those
aspirations we hold in common
as brothers and sisters,
as members of the same
family -- the family of man.
All of us know how
important work is --
not just for the paycheck, but
for the peace of mind that comes
from knowing you can
provide for your family.
As Americans, and
as human beings,
we seek not only the security,
but the sense of dignity,
the sense of community,
that work confers.
That's why it was heartening
news that last month,
for the first time in
more than two years,
our economy created a
substantial number of jobs,
instead of losing them.
We've begun to reverse
the devastating slide,
but we have a long way to go
to repair the damage from this
recession, and that will
continue to be my focus every
single day.
All of us also value our health and the health of our loved ones.
All of us have experienced
an illness, a loss,
or a personal tragedy.
All of us know that no matter
what we're doing or what else is
going on in our lives, if the
health of someone we love is
endangered, nothing
else matters.
Our health is the rock upon
which our lives are built,
for better and for worse.
All of us value education.
We know that in an economy
as competitive as ours,
an education is a
prerequisite for success.
But we also know
that ultimately,
education is about something
more, something greater.
It's about the ability that
lies within each of us to rise
above any barrier, no matter
how high; to pursue any dream,
no matter how big; to fulfill
our God-given potential.
All of us are striving to
make a way in this world;
to build a purposeful and
fulfilling life in the fleeting
time we have here.
A dignified life.
A healthy life.
A life, true to its potential.
And a life that serves others.
These are aspirations that
stretch back through the ages --
aspirations at the
heart of Judaism,
at the heart of Christianity, at
the heart of all of the world's
great religions.
The rites of Passover, and
the traditions of Easter,
have been marked by people in
every corner of the planet for
thousands of years.
They've been marked in times
of peace, in times of upheaval,
and in times of war.
One such war-time service was
held on the black sands of Iwo
Jima more than sixty years ago.
There, in the wake of some of
the fiercest fighting of World
War II, a chaplain rose to
deliver an Easter sermon,
consecrating the memory, he
said "of American dead --
Catholic, Protestant, Jew.
Together," he said, "they
huddled in foxholes or crouched
in the bloody sands...Together
they practiced virtue,
patriotism, love of country,
love of you and of me."
The chaplain continued, "The
heritage they have left us,
the vision of a new world, [was]
made possible by a common bond
that united them...their only
hope that this unity will endure."
Their only hope that
this unity will endure.
On this weekend, as Easter
begins and Passover comes to a
close, let us remain ever
mindful of the unity of purpose,
the common bond, the
love of you and of me,
for which they
sacrificed all they had;
and for which so many others
have sacrificed so much.
Let us make its pursuit
-- and fulfillment --
our highest aspiration, as
individuals and as a nation.
Happy Easter and Happy Passover
to all those celebrating,
here in America, and
around the world.